readme.md, before:

{{{
  "title": "Getting Started with Fons", 
  "author": "Eric Branner"
}}}

# Getting Started: How You Can Teach Well Using Fons

Fons manages the administrative tasks of running a teaching business. Save time and make more money using Fons to schedule, bill, and manage your students. 

The Fons’ student app also makes scheduling and paying for lessons easy for your clients.

## Here’s how it works:

1. You create an account with just a name and a password. 

2. Create the billing policy for your studio by adding a default hourly rate, your most common lesson duration, and a cancellation policy. 

3. Add your clients to Fons, and invite them to use Fons. 

4. They agree to your lesson policies, create an account, and enter their payment information. 

5. Then lessons can be scheduled, confirmed, and taught. 

6. When your student leaves a lesson, their credit card will be billed for that lesson. Fons will transfer all of your cleared lesson fees into your bank account via ACH transfer every evening. 

## How Much Does Fons Cost?

Fons charges a subscription fee of $39.95/month.

Credit card fees are currently 2.9%+$.30 a transaction. There is also a .5% ACH fee for bank transfers. 

Fons takes nothing from transactions. These are just the fees the credit card processing companies charge.   

## Getting Started -Your Profile

## Set Your Office Hours

Setting your office hours lets students know when you’d ideally like to teach, and allows your students to request lessons when you have availability.  

That’s not all...

You can also schedule lessons outside of office hours. But students cannot request lessons outside of office hours. Think of office hours as outlining your "ideal week" of teaching times.  

Here’s the deal:

1. Go to your **Profile** page
2. Select **Edit My Office Hours**.  
3. Press **+** and select a day and time window that you currently teach, or would like to teach. 
4. You can also create multiple windows on a single day to account for breaks.
5. Office hours will appear as a light blue window on your schedule.  
6. You can delete or change office hours by selecting an office hour within your **Edit My Office Hours** page.

## Organization Defaults


Organization Defaults are are made up of your **default hourly rate,** **your default lesson duration**, and your **cancellation policy**.  

Note, that your hourly rate and lesson duration are customizable for each student you teach, these numbers reflect your current bill rate, and your most common lesson duration. 

Here’s how **default hourly rate** works:

Set up your **default hourly rate (**why an hourly rate click to blog post). This is your current bill rate for students.  

Remember that it’s easy to customize your rate for each student to as little as $0.  This also helps if you have any grandfathered students that pay a rate you charged previously.  

If you teach lessons that are partial hours in length, remember that the hourly rate will apply to the amount of time of that lesson. 

EXAMPLE: If your default hourly rate is $100, then a 30 minute lesson will be billed $50. If you charge a premium for shorter lessons, you can adjust the hourly rate of an individual student within their client settings. In other words, if your default rate is $100, and you charge $60 for a 30 minute lesson, than you can adjust the bill rate to $120 for that student’s bill rate.  

Next, let’s look at the **cancellation policy:**

Set your **cancellation policy**. Students that do not have an excused absence or reschedule within this window will be charged at the time their lesson was scheduled. 

There is no additional fee for a lesson that can be rescheduled at the teacher’s discretion. The instructor can always override/cancel a lesson charge for any reason. 


## Deposit Information/Getting Paid

Fons will automatically deposit all of your processed transactions to your bank account every evening. Enter your ACH information, and you are all set up to get paid! Your first transaction takes one week to process, and after that most charges will clear within 48 hours. 

## How to add a client

Adding clients is simple using Fons:

1. Simply click on the **Clients** tab, and press **+**. 
2. Enter the client’s name and email address. 
3. Enter the duration of their proposed lesson, and the hourly rate you will charge for their lesson. 
**EXAMPLE:** if you have an hourly rate of $100, and their duration is 30 minutes, they will be billed $50/lesson.
4. If the invitation tab is green, your student will receive an email invitation to use Fons when you press **save.**
5. You can begin scheduling lessons once your client has accepted your invitation to use Fons, and created an account.

## How to Schedule a Lesson

Scheduling a lesson is a breeze using Fons:

1. Simply go the **Schedule** page, and press **+**. 
2. Select a student from your list of clients. 
3. Then choose a time, the duration of the lesson and if the lesson is recurring or a one time lesson. 
4. If your client is set up with a Fons account, they will be notified to confirm the lesson and the billing rate for that lesson.  
5. Once they are confirmed you’re good to teach!

Commit message:

link to /pricing page for the latest prices
For until this gets rewritten

readme.md, after:

{{{
  "title": "Getting Started with Fons", 
  "author": "Eric Branner"
}}}

# Getting Started: How You Can Teach Well Using Fons

Fons manages the administrative tasks of running a teaching business. Save time and make more money using Fons to schedule, bill, and manage your students. 

The Fons’ student app also makes scheduling and paying for lessons easy for your clients.

## Here’s how it works:

1. You create an account with just a name and a password. 

2. Create the billing policy for your studio by adding a default hourly rate, your most common lesson duration, and a cancellation policy. 

3. Add your clients to Fons, and invite them to use Fons. 

4. They agree to your lesson policies, create an account, and enter their payment information. 

5. Then lessons can be scheduled, confirmed, and taught. 

6. When your student leaves a lesson, their credit card will be billed for that lesson. Fons will transfer all of your cleared lesson fees into your bank account via ACH transfer every evening. 

## How Much Does Fons Cost?

Cost is based on which plan you are on. There is a $0.00/month plan called Basic, as well as a Pro plan for $29.95/month. [See our pricing page for more information](https://fons.io/pricing).

## Getting Started -Your Profile

## Set Your Office Hours

Setting your office hours lets students know when you’d ideally like to teach, and allows your students to request lessons when you have availability.  

That’s not all...

You can also schedule lessons outside of office hours. But students cannot request lessons outside of office hours. Think of office hours as outlining your "ideal week" of teaching times.  

Here’s the deal:

1. Go to your **Profile** page
2. Select **Edit My Office Hours**.  
3. Press **+** and select a day and time window that you currently teach, or would like to teach. 
4. You can also create multiple windows on a single day to account for breaks.
5. Office hours will appear as a light blue window on your schedule.  
6. You can delete or change office hours by selecting an office hour within your **Edit My Office Hours** page.

## Organization Defaults


Organization Defaults are are made up of your **default hourly rate,** **your default lesson duration**, and your **cancellation policy**.  

Note, that your hourly rate and lesson duration are customizable for each student you teach, these numbers reflect your current bill rate, and your most common lesson duration. 

Here’s how **default hourly rate** works:

Set up your **default hourly rate (**why an hourly rate click to blog post). This is your current bill rate for students.  

Remember that it’s easy to customize your rate for each student to as little as $0.  This also helps if you have any grandfathered students that pay a rate you charged previously.  

If you teach lessons that are partial hours in length, remember that the hourly rate will apply to the amount of time of that lesson. 

EXAMPLE: If your default hourly rate is $100, then a 30 minute lesson will be billed $50. If you charge a premium for shorter lessons, you can adjust the hourly rate of an individual student within their client settings. In other words, if your default rate is $100, and you charge $60 for a 30 minute lesson, than you can adjust the bill rate to $120 for that student’s bill rate.  

Next, let’s look at the **cancellation policy:**

Set your **cancellation policy**. Students that do not have an excused absence or reschedule within this window will be charged at the time their lesson was scheduled. 

There is no additional fee for a lesson that can be rescheduled at the teacher’s discretion. The instructor can always override/cancel a lesson charge for any reason. 


## Deposit Information/Getting Paid

Fons will automatically deposit all of your processed transactions to your bank account every evening. Enter your ACH information, and you are all set up to get paid! Your first transaction takes one week to process, and after that most charges will clear within 48 hours. 

## How to add a client

Adding clients is simple using Fons:

1. Simply click on the **Clients** tab, and press **+**. 
2. Enter the client’s name and email address. 
3. Enter the duration of their proposed lesson, and the hourly rate you will charge for their lesson. 
**EXAMPLE:** if you have an hourly rate of $100, and their duration is 30 minutes, they will be billed $50/lesson.
4. If the invitation tab is green, your student will receive an email invitation to use Fons when you press **save.**
5. You can begin scheduling lessons once your client has accepted your invitation to use Fons, and created an account.

## How to Schedule a Lesson

Scheduling a lesson is a breeze using Fons:

1. Simply go the **Schedule** page, and press **+**. 
2. Select a student from your list of clients. 
3. Then choose a time, the duration of the lesson and if the lesson is recurring or a one time lesson. 
4. If your client is set up with a Fons account, they will be notified to confirm the lesson and the billing rate for that lesson.  
5. Once they are confirmed you’re good to teach!
